Developer guide
===============

The main pipeline logic is in the script ``run_blip``. Currently this is not a python
module so it cannot be imported or have its API documented here.

General architecture
--------------------

Data generation is done by an :class:`injection <blip.src.models.Injection>`, while data
analysis is done by a :class:`model <blip.src.models.Model>`. Injections and models are
collections of :class:`submodels <blip.src.submodel.submodel>`.

The model is specified by ``params.model`` in the :ref:`configuration file <config>`,
whereas the injection is specified by ``inj.injection``.

The submodels are uniquely identified by the raw strings used to specify them in the
config file. See the attributes ``components`` and ``component_names`` for an injection
or ``submodels`` and ``submodel_names`` for a model.


Input parameters
----------------

The input parameters given in the :ref:`configuration <config>` by the user are parsed
using :func:`parse_config <blip.config.parse_config>` and passed around in BLIP as the
ubiquitous dictionaries named ``params`` and ``inj``.

.. _devguide-timefreq:

Time-frequency grids
--------------------

In BLIP there are two main time-frequency grids: the one used for data generation, and
the one used for data analysis. Throughout the code, the following convention for names
specifies which one we are talking about:

+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
|                      |                Analysis grid                |          Simulation grid          |
+======================+=============================================+===================================+
| time chunks          | "segments" (default 1e5)                    | "splices" (default 1e4)           |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| time array           | ``tsegmid``                                 | ``tsegmid``                       |
| (mid-segments)       |                                             |                                   |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| size of segment      | ``nperseg``                                 | ``npersplice``                    |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| frequency resolution | higher (``rfftfreq(nperseg)``)              | lower (``rfftfreq(npersplice)``)  |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| frequency range      | between ``fmin`` and ``fmax``               | full range excluding DC           |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| frequency array      | ``fdata``                                   | ``frange``                        |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| implementation       | :meth:`tser2fser                            | ``LISA.makedata`` in ``run_blip`` |
|                      | <blip.src.makeLISAdata.LISAdata.tser2fser>` |                                   |
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Moreover, inside the :mod:`blip.src.faster_geometry` module, a sparse time-frequency
grid is used for the response calculation. The sparse grid is generated by
:func:`blip.src.faster_geometry.get_sparse_tf_grid` based on the required dense grid,
which could be either the analysis or the simulation grid.


Response matrices
-----------------

Response matrices are passed around as attributes in submodels. This is the list of
attributes currently used:

1. ``response_mat``: complex array of shape ``(3, 3, nfreqs, ntimes)``, the first two
   dimensions referring to TDI channels. The standard.
2. ``unconvolved_response_mat``: used for parametrized spatial models, complex array of
   shape ``(3, 3, nfreqs, ntimes, npix or nsph)``.
3. ``fdata_response_mat``: in injection submodels, this is the same as ``response_mat``,
   but computed on the analysis time-frequency grid rather than on the simulation grid.
   This is used for plotting injections together with analysis results. Using this
   rather than ``response_mat`` is indicated by a function parameter ``plot_flag`` in,
   e.g., :meth:`calculate_response_functions
   <blip.src.fast_geometry.fast_geometry.calculate_response_functions>`.
4. ``unconvolved_fdata_response_mat``: combination of the two above.
5. ``summ_response_mat``: deprecated, use ``response_mat`` instead.
6. ``inj_response_mat``: deprecated, use ``response_mat`` instead.
